.Dd September 11, 2024
.Dt POBSD-BROWSER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pobsd-browser
.Nd terminal user interface for browsing the PlayOnBSD database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl s Ar file
.Op Fl u Ar url
.Op Fl o
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Provides a terminal user interface for browsing the PlayOnBSD database
provided by the playonbsd/OpenBSD-Games-Database GitHub repository.
.Pp
Its arguments are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar file
Load the game database from the provided
.Ar file
.Pq see FILES section for more details on the database format .
Cannot be used together with
.Fl o
or
.Fl u
argument
.It Fl s Ar file
Use the Steam ids contained in the provided
.Ar file
to identify the games owned by the user 
.Po the id list can be obtained using steamctl;
see FILES section for more details on the file format
.It Fl u Ar url
Load the game database from the provided
.Ar url 
.Pq see FILES section for more details on the database format .
Cannot be used together with
.Fl f
or
.Fl o
argument
.It Fl o
Load the game database from the game database provided by the official
PlayOnBSD GitHub repository.
Cannot be used together with
.Fl f
or
.Fl u
argument
.El
.Pp
At least one the
.Fl f
,
.Fl u
or
.Fl o
argument must be provided.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Nm
is a mode-based interface supporting two modes: a list mode and a search
mode.
The commands differ according to the mode.
In the following descriptions, ^X means control-X.
.Ss list mode
In this mode, it is possible to navigate in the game list.
When a game is selected, the corresponding details are displayed in the
right panel.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic G
go to the last game of the list
.It Sy g
go to the first game of the list
.It Ic j | down arrow
scroll down in the list
.It Ic k | up arrow
scroll up in the list
.It Ic o
toggle between a first mode where all games are displayed and a second mode
where only owned games are displayed 
.Pq show nothing if no Steam ids are provided
.It Ic q | ^C | ^c
exit application
.It Ic ESC
clear the search
.It Ic TAB | /
switch to search mode
.El
.Ss search mode
In this mode, the list of games is updated according to the search.
The search is performed on the name, engine, runtime, tag and genre fields.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic TAB | ESC | RETURN
exit from search mode back to list mode
.El
.Sh FILES
.Nm
uses a game database and, optionally, a file containing a list of Steam ids.
.Ss game database
The format of the game database is described in the official PlayOnBSD
GitHub repository.
Please refer to it for up-to-date formatting.
.Ss list of Steam ids
The file providing the Steam ids should contain space separated values,
and the first column should contain the Steam ids.
The correct formatting can be obtain with steamctl and used with
.Nm
using the following
command:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ steamctl apps list > steam_ids.txt
$ pobsd-browser -o -s steam_ids.txt
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by 
.An Hukadan ,
.Mt me@hukadan.org .
